talk about a little bit are some of the other
series. One of them, the one that got the biggest
attention, of course, was the
Jim Michener and Clady Williams series. I never
realized at the time But I think, in thinking about
it in retrospect, that I think, here again, as in
many other things related to the press, Joe Moore
was the person responsible for getting Michener
involved, and possibly, I suspect that if
Michener hadn't been involved, Clady might not
have been involved, although it was Clady's
father that a local, you know, regional
historian, and was interested in his stuff, was
big in the Texas State Historical Association,
and he was interested in, it's a memorial to his,
Clayton, Clayton, it's the father, anyhow. But I
think that was a... How was the funding set up for
that? Do you remember any details? Well, it was a
hundred, I think, I think, Michener gave
$125,000. Okay, $125,000. I think that's right.
Yeah, I think it's somewhere in my neighborhood.
And Williams got more than that, and it was through
this bank that Williams was involved with that his
money came. I know that in some of the first books in
that series, we mentioned this bank in the Tidal
Age or somewhere. Okay, good. I'll check that out.
I'm sure you can find all that related to the...
Okay, good. And that came into being roughly,
what, in 1884 or something like that? I can't tell
you. I don't know. That's okay. Oh, okay. Well, I
can look. It's easy. I got the first book. Why don't
I just look? I
might have profited more from a relationship with
Frank Leonard. He looked upon Frank Wardlow as a
kind of a father in a way. Frank Wardlow was really
the sponsor of his author, his writing career,
Frank, I think, published his first book and
advised him on numerous books.
And that book, the first book that he did for A&M was
one that the commercial people turned down
because it was too big, it was too long, they
couldn't get it all under one, between two covers,
and he'd had a long time contract with it. some
commercial outfit, and they dumped it because it
wasn't . Any other series that you know of? Yeah,
the other one that I think is the Charles and
Elizabeth Prothrow Photographic Series. And
these are these people in Waco or somewhere.
There's a whole lot of correspondence on that one,
I am sure. They've done, they did a number of books.
The best, the one that I liked the best was For God,
Country, and the Hell of it. No, not the Hell, the
Glory of it or something.
That lady is somebody else. She's, oh, I think
she's something special. You know, they also did a
follow-up. She went to Russia. and attended the
reunion and got to meet all the Russian women
pilots and took their pictures. Yeah, that was a
sequel one. Yeah, that was part of it. But that was
fascinating. Those women were something else.
But I think this Pro Throw series... How did that
come to be? There was a guy named Wright You're
going
to talk to the rest of the staff, so there's no...
Yeah,
you might, and you might just look to see what there
is, what Ray Gromyla left behind, if anything. He
was, he had much, many more connections than
Billingsley, although Billingsley belonged to a
group of production managers that always met at
every national meeting. They always got
together. And there was this guy that was the
production manager in Chicago that later went
freelance and did a, designed a lot of books for
A&M.
But his name isn't fine. He was a big crony of Ray's.
And the reason Billingsley got the job at A&M
really was because he knew about Ray. And he was
having all this trouble. And he actually, if I
remember right, He actually made overtures
before we even inquired about him. And I just
grabbed him because we needed him. We've got to
have somebody. And see, that Susan wasn't there.
Ray was all by himself. He had terrible
assistants. They were nothing. Ray did it all. And
there wasn't anybody there that knew what was
what. And Dillingsley was willing to come. He came
the same way he left, one step at a time. He came over
in a trailer and was there. Yeah, kind of on the
side, still attached to Tennessee or something.
Yeah. And then I know when he left, he did the same
thing. He took books, manuscripts back to design
and all this stuff. Yeah, made a deal with Stetter.
Yeah. I never could figure out Stetter. I don't
know how he got that job. He's still at Suarez. I
know he's still at Southern Illinois. And I'm
going to try to talk to him. He comes in to visit his
wife, and her wife never left. She still lives in
the neighborhood.
I wonder about that. She hated college, didn't
she? when she first came there, the last, you were
at that meal, that dinner, the night, I'm sure you
might have been there, when, Stenner? Let's see, I
guess
you should say, I was retired because I was 65,
Okay, so it was that time. It was that time. You
really didn't have a choice, by the way. Well, I
suppose I could have bought another... It seemed
like... I know the feeling. Yeah. The perfect
time, it was the time to leave. Both of us were
thinking about the West Coast. I mean, this is...
Leia is very fond of this part of the world, and I
always thought of this as the place where I would
end up. And the press was in good condition. Yeah,
so far as I knew. Things were going well. Yeah, I
think so too. And it seemed that this was a good
point to break. Yeah, at the height. Yeah, and not
go away when you're feeling good about it, and not
run off when you're feeling bad about it. If there
were, what were the high points, would you say, of
your, of your whole diplomacy? Money, people,
books, staff? I think one of the high points, yeah,
one of the high points was, was the whole meeting
and association with, with Michener, which I
thought was an interesting experience. Not only
Michener, but also his, his right hand, King,
King, John Kings. Yeah, John, yeah. Kings. Yeah.
Yeah. and uh that was that was interesting now
incidentally mitchum money was supposed to set up
some sort of a school thing weren't you going to do
something or did you do something well that's that
was that that went that that went ultimately that
went to texas that's the writing school that i
think john king's runs i think he's the guy that
loves it we were going to get that for a while well it
was oh it was questionable yeah there was there was
some yeah talk about that, and I can't remember now
why it went the other direction, but I don't think
Michener really got along with anybody. He didn't
dig A&M, really. He liked the Moors. That's the
Michener connection with A&M. And I think
Michener probably pulled the boys into the Texas
I'm sure he did. I mean, the boys gave big parties to
the Texas Press in recent years. Incredible
years. Well, that's Michener. I'll bet you. You
know, Michener also gave, has given big money to
the creative writing school at Iowa. That Iowa
creative writing school. I think this is in the
millions. He
did one about... He was in the habit of every place
that he... He said that. Well, he's given more than
that to the... I mean, he's given more than just
one... I think he's given to Iowa, not to Iowa, but
to the Writing Center and to Texas University.
He's given more money... than all the others. I
mean, he's given that art collection to UT. You
know, he's given a bunch of pictures to the band. I
wonder if he ever did anything in Alaska. I don't
know. I bet he did, somewhere. I bet he did, too.
I've never fallen in love before. At least that was
his modus operandi for everything else he did. I
don't know. I think that mostly just the
experience of Texas, the people I met were
completely outside my experience anywhere else.
And that was fascinating. I got to see people like
Clayton Williams, like Joe Moore, John Lindsay,
the whole...
Frank Vandiver. These were people that were all
Texans. Oh, I said it was to do with the guy that
supported Lindsay. The guy that put up the tower
for the... Oh, Albritton. Ford Albritton. Yeah,
Ford Albritton. You know, we did that book for him
about his brother-in-law,
about the... In fact, that's... I know when you
first came, you were startled by their formality.
Oh, yeah. But over time, how did you and the press
relate to the faculty? I tried, without success,
to interest the engineering people, and I must say
I didn't have any luck at Cal for the same reasons.
they saw no purpose or whatever, and they had their
established publishing outlets, and they were
different. I thought, as far as the English and the
history departments were concerned, that was
fine. Also, although we never published a lot, the
vet school I enjoyed the people that I, and I can't
remember a single blessing name, but reading that
book about horse color and a couple other books,
and I think they were valuable books. And the
architecture people,
that was cool. Do you think the, generally
faculty, are aware and supported of a university
press? You can say that generically for any
university or Texas A&M University. I think it's a
curious thing. I think that many faculty are more
sympathetic and more aware of a university press
at another institution than they are of their own.
That can be almost a... That's why I asked the
question. I think so too. Well, they don't, I don't
know exactly why this is. They always, the profit
is never appreciated at home. That's right. And I
think that applies right across the board for, it
was my experience at California and LSU also, that
the likelihood was for a faculty person to Trying
to publish elsewhere, right, because they sense
that if you have to go publish on your own, it's less
prestigious. Yeah, well, it's just a house organ
that just cranks out stuff because it can't get
accepted anywhere else. And originally,
university presses struggled under this a lot.
And in fact, if you look at Cal, the history there
You hear people saying this is the reason that they
started the thing. Certain departments couldn't
get, they didn't have the publishing outlets, and
they wanted some way to get their stuff available.
And that was one of the main reasons for a
university press. What do you think a university
press, a Texas A&M university press, Well, I think
it demonstrated the coming of age of Texas A&M
University as a full-fledged, as not just a
technical school or a military academy. This, I
think, a university press, certainly in my time, a
university press was indication of the maturity
and sophistication and competence and all the
rest of the institution. And during the, from the
50s through the 70s anyway, a lot of university
presses were started. There were lots of them.
Just look at Texas. I mean, a whole lot of things got
started just inside the state, but that went on all
over the country.
Are they going to... The responsibility of the
university press was to academic excellence, to
providing an outlet for material that didn't
necessarily
appeal to a wide audience, that it was important
for a university press to publish material that
was for scholars. I don't think that's the way it is
anymore. I think the line between commercial
presses and university presses has become almost
obliterated. It's very hard to distinguish I
mean, that book we were talking about the other
day, the LSU
Confederacy of Dunces. I mean, that a university
press should publish that book. Many places would
have refused to consider that years ago. Now,
almost any would love it to happen.
And this is partly because the kind of support that
was originally provided to university presses
has become less and less and less. Marketplace is
directing the university press. Yes, and that's
not always the best. In many ways, it's bad.
Top stuff gets the lead. And this is where Frank
bridged that. I mean, got over that pop stuff by
doing those picture books. I mean, some of those
picture books are perfect
examples. I mean, he was able to do those and not
compromise, or not seem to compromise. But those
kinds of books are now much more common.
And the other thing is the intrusion of the
computer. Yeah, I'll have to work on that. And
that'll fit into the production, too. Yes, yes,
yes. That has... University presses are not the
only publishing activities that are under
pressure. It's any publishing activity, as it's
been practiced since Gutenberg. I
wouldn't be surprised if they come, I don't know,
Lee put together for, what was it, Wardlow's
Retirement or Dedication? I think Wardlow's
Retirement. Yeah. He did a piece which combined
A&M, Texas, and South Carolina logos. Oh yeah?
Yeah, I think that was when he retired, yeah. Yeah,
yeah, that's, yeah. And in fact, the title, which
is the second chapter,
Fire, Air, Earth, and Water. Oh, yeah. Good. I
thought it was good. It sure did. Yeah, that's a
good one. That's good. Okay, so O'Neill Forsberg.
Yeah, I'm going to get that just to show you.
These things came out after, this came out after I
left, but I worked with Mary, Carol, and Holland.
See, and this is, this ended up as number one in the
Sarah and John Lindsay series in the arts and
humanities, so that's, now I've got to cool it
down. Yeah. Because this is, has lots of nice
pictures. Yeah, and do you remember, you don't
remember, but you remember that. Oh, yes. on
lindsay something yeah i mean they're dollars you
know oh i don't know the faintest idea because see
that that that whole that series was founded after
i left that's something that happened under
rick's
jurisdiction and i don't know what the date i think
it appeared in the early 90s very late 80s
Yeah, yeah. Well, see, Mary Carolyn Collars
George, do you know who she is? She's a San
Antonian, and she was a big friend of the woman who
ran that bookstore. I have heard of her. She was a
good, the woman that ran the bookstore was a big
buddy of Frank's.
Mary Carolyn just, this book had all kinds of,
there was a guy at Texas that was going to also write
a book about O'Neill Ford, and for a while he was
making such a big noise that She was afraid that she
didn't go ahead with hers, but he was making noise
so she finally got it all. Her husband teaches or
did teach in the architecture department at
UT.